# HTTP Semantics

> Last updated 2022/10/13
> Stream:Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
> RFC:9110
> Obsoletes:2818, 7230, 7231, 7232, 7233, 7235, 7538, 7615, 7694
> Updates:3864
> Category:Standards Track
> Published:June 2022

- [HTTP Semantics](#http-semantics)
  - [Source](#source)
  - [Abstract](#abstract)
  - [1. Introduction](#1-introduction)
    - [1.1. Purpose](#11-purpose)
  - [1.2. History and Evolution](#12-history-and-evolution)
  - [1.3. Core Semantics](#13-core-semantics)
  - [3.1. Resources](#31-resources)
  - [3.2. Representations](#32-representations)
  - [4. Identifiers in HTTP](#4-identifiers-in-http)
  - [9. Methods](#9-methods)
    - [9.1. Overview](#91-overview)
    - [9.2.1 Safe Methods](#921-safe-methods)

## [Source](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110)

## Abstract

The Hypertext Transfer Protocol `(HTTP)` is a `stateless application-level protocol` for **distributed**, **collaborative**, **hypertext information** systems. This `document` describes the `overall architecture of HTTP, establishes common terminology`, and defines aspects of the protocol that are shared by all versions. In this definition are core protocol elements, extensibility mechanisms, and the "http" and "https" Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) schemes.

This document updates RFC 3864 and obsoletes RFCs 2818, 7231, 7232, 7233, 7235, 7538, 7615, 7694, and portions of 7230.

## 1. Introduction

### 1.1. Purpose

The Hypertext Transfer Protocol `(HTTP)` is a `family of stateless, application-level`, `request/response protocols` that `share a generic interface`, `extensible semantics`, and `self-descriptive messages` to enable flexible `interaction with network-based hypertext` information systems.

`HTTP` hides the details of how a service is implemented by `presenting a uniform interface to clients` that is independent of the types of resources provided.

Likewise, `servers do not need to be aware of each client's purpose`: a request can be considered in isolation rather than being associated with a specific type of client or a predetermined sequence of application steps. This allows general-purpose implementations to be used effectively in many different contexts, reduces interaction complexity, and enables independent evolution over time.

`HTTP` is also designed for use as an `intermediation protocol`, wherein `proxies and gateways can translate non-HTTP information` systems into a more `generic interface`.

`One consequence` of this flexibility is that the protocol `cannot be defined in terms of what occurs behind the interface`. `Instead`, we are `limited` to defining the **syntax of communication**, the **intent of received communication**, and the **expected behavior of recipients**. If the communication is considered in isolation, then successful actions ought to be reflected in corresponding changes to the observable interface provided by servers.

However, since multiple clients might act in parallel and perhaps at cross-purposes, we `cannot require` that `such changes` be observable `beyond the scope of a single response`.

## 1.2. History and Evolution

`HTTP/1.1` was designed to refine the protocol's features while retaining compatibility with the existing text-based messaging syntax, improving its interoperability, scalability, and robustness across the Internet.

`HTTP/2` ([HTTP/2](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110#HTTP2)) `introduced` a `multiplexed session layer on top of the existing TLS and TCP protocols` for exchanging concurrent HTTP messages with efficient field compression and server push.

`HTTP/3` ([HTTP/3]) provides greater independence for concurrent messages by using `QUIC` as a secure multiplexed transport over UDP instead of TCP.

`All three major versions of HTTP rely on the semantics defined by this document`. They have not obsoleted each other because each one has specific benefits and limitations depending on the context of use.

Implementations are expected to choose the most appropriate transport and messaging syntax for their particular context.

`This revision of HTTP separates the definition of semantics (this document) and caching` ([CACHING]) from the current HTTP/1.1 messaging syntax ([HTTP/1.1]) to allow each major protocol version to progress independently while referring to the same core semantics.

## 1.3. Core Semantics

HTTP provides a `uniform interface` for interacting with a resource (Section 3.1) -- regardless of its type, nature, or implementation -- by sending messages that manipulate or `transfer representations` (Section 3.2).

## 3.1. Resources

The `target of an HTTP request is called a "resource"`. HTTP does not limit the nature of a resource; it merely defines an interface that might be used to interact with resources. Most resources are identified by a Uniform Resource Identifier (URI), as described in [Section 4](#4-identifiers-in-http).

One design goal of HTTP is to `separate resource identification from request semantics`, which is made possible by vesting the request semantics in the request method ([Section 9](#91-overview)) and a few request-modifying header fields. A resource cannot treat a request in a manner inconsistent with the semantics of the method of the request. For example, though the URI of a resource might imply semantics that are not safe, a client can expect the resource to avoid actions that are unsafe when processing a request with a safe method (see [Section 9.2.1](#921-safe-methods)).

HTTP `relies upon the Uniform Resource Identifier (URI)` standard [URI] to indicate the target resource (Section 7.1) and relationships between resources.

## 3.2. Representations

## 4. Identifiers in HTTP

## 9. Methods

### 9.1. Overview

### 9.2.1 Safe Methods
