# 2. function
###### tags: `python learn`

## 4.1 Function calls
P.35
```python=
type(32)
<class 'int'>
```
The name of the function is **type**. The expression in parentheses is called the argument
of the function. The argument is a value or variable that we are passing into the function
as input to the function. The result, for the **type** function, is the type of the argument.
It is common to say that a function “takes” an argument and “returns” a result. The
result is called the return value.

## 4.3 Type conversion functions
P.36
**int** can convert floating-point values to integers, but it doesn’t round off; it chops off
the fraction part:

```python=
>>> int(3.9999)
3
>>> int(-2.3)
-2
```
**float** converts integers and strings to floating-point numbers:
```python=
>>> float(32)
32.0
>>> float('3.14159')
3.14159
```
**str** converts its argument to a string:
```python=
>>> str(32)
'32'
>>> str(3.14159)
'3.14159'
```
## 4.4 random number
P.37
```python=
import random

for i in range(10):
    x = random.random()
    print(x)
```

The **random** function is only one of many functions that handle random numbers. The
function **randint** takes the parameters **low** and **high**, and returns an integer between
**low** and **high** (including both)
```python=
>>> random.randint(5,10)
5
>>> random.randint(5,10)
9
```

To choose an element from a sequence at random, you can use choice:
```python=
>>> t = [1, 2, 3]
>>> random.choice(t)
2
>>> random.choice(t)
```

## 4.5 Math functions
The module object contains the functions and variables defined in the module. To access
one of the functions, you have to specify the name of the module and the name of the
function, separated by a dot (also known as a period). This format is called dot notation.
```python=
>>> import math
>>> print(math)

>>> ratio = signal_power / noise_power
>>> decibels = 10 * math.log10(ratio)

>>> radians = 0.7
>>> height = math.sin(radians)

>>> degrees = 45
>>> radians = degrees / 360.0 * 2 * math.pi
>>> math.sin(radians)
0.7071067811865476
>>> math.sqrt(2) / 2.0
0.7071067811865476
```

## 4.6 Adding new functions
```python
# function P.40
def print_lyrics():
    print("I'm a lumberjack, and I'm okey.")
    print('I sleep all night and I work all day.')


print(print_lyrics)
print(type(print_lyrics))
print_lyrics()


def repeat_lyrics():
    print_lyrics()
    print_lyrics()
```

## 4.9 Parameters and arguments
**Inside the function, the arguments are assigned to variables called parameters**. Here is
an example of a user-defined function that takes an argument:
```python=
import math


def print_twice(bruce):
    print(bruce)
    print(bruce)


print_twice('Spam')
print_twice(math.pi)
print_twice('Spam' * 4)
print_twice(math.cos(math.pi))

michael = 'Eric, the half a bee.'
print_twice(michael)

```

## 4.10 Fruitful functions and void functions
Some of the functions we are using, such as the math functions, yield results; for lack of a better name, I call them fruitful functions. Other functions, like print_twice, perform an action but don’t return a value. They are called void functions.
```python=
x = math.cos(radians)
golden = (math.sqrt(5) + 1) / 2
```

Void functions might display something on the screen or have some other effect, but they don't have a return value. If you try to assign the result to a variable, you get a special value called **None**.
```python=
>>> result = print_twice('Bing')
Bing
Bing
>>> print(result)
None
```

To return a result from a function, we use the **return** statement in our funcion. For ex, we could make a very simple function called **addtwo** that adds two numbers together and returns a result.
```python=
def addtwo(a,b):
    added = a + b
    return added

x = addtwo(3,5)
print(x)
```

## 4.11 Why functions?
It may not be clear why it is worth the trouble to divide a program into functions. There are several reasons:
• Creating a new function gives you an opportunity to name a group of statements,
which makes your program easier to read, understand, and debug.
• Functions can make a program smaller by eliminating repetitive code. Later, if you
make a change, you only have to make it in one place.
• Dividing a long program into functions allows you to debug the parts one at a time
and then assemble them into a working whole.
• Well-designed functions are often useful for many programs. Once you write and
debug one, you can reuse it.
