# 53~68: ing... and to...
###### tags: `engilsh grammerly intermediate`

## Unit 53 Verb + -ing (enjoy doing / stop doing etc.)
### examples
- I **enjoy reading**. (not I enjoy to read)
- Would you **mind closing** the door? (not mind to close)
- Chris **suggested going** to the cinema. (not suggested to go)

After **enjoy, mind** and **suggest**, we use **-ing** (not **to**...).

Some more verbs that are followed by **-ing**:
> stop postpone admit avoid imagine
finish consider deny risk fancy

- Suddenly everybody **stopped talking**. There was silence.
- I'll do the shopping when I've **finished cleaning** the flat.
- He tried to **avoid answering** my question.
- I don't **fancy going** out this evening. (= I'm not enthusiatic about it)
- Have you ever **considered going** to live in another country?
- They said they were innocent. They **denied doing** anything wrong.

The negative form is **not -ing**:
- When I'm on holiday, I enjoy **not having** to get up early.

### Part B  We use -ing after:
> **give up** (= stop)
**put off** (= postpone)
**go on** or **carry on** (= continue)
**keep** or **keep on** (= do something continuously or repeatedly)

- I've **given up reading** newspapers. I think it's a waste of time.
- Catherine doesn't want to retire. She wants to **go on working**. (or ... to **carry on working**)
- You **keep interrupting** when I'm talking! or You **keep on interrupting**

### Part C verb + somebody + -ing
With some verbs you can use the structure verb + somebody + **-ing**:
- I can't **imagine George riding** a motorbike.
- You can't **stop me doing** what I want.
- Did you really say that? I don't **remember you saying** that.
- Sorry to **keep you waiting** so long. That's all right.

Note the passive form (**being done/ seen/ kept** etc.):
- I don't **mind being kept** waiting. (= I don't mind **people keeping** me...)

### Part D talking about finished actions
When you are talking about finished actions, you can say **having done/stolen/said** etc.:
- They admitted **having stolen** the money.

But it is not necessary to use **having** (done). You can also say:
- They admitted **stealing** the money.
- I now regret **saying** (or **having said**) what I said.

### Part E some thing verbs you can also use that ...
After some of the verbs on this page (especially **admit/deny/suggest**) you can also use **that...**:
- They **denied that** they had stolen the money. (or They **denied stealing**...)
- Chris **suggested that** we went to the cinema. (or Chris **suggested going**...)

## Unit 54 Verb + to... (decide to... / forget to ... etc.)
### Part A verb + to
> offer decide hope deserve promise
> agree plan manage afford threaten
> refuse arrange fail forget learn

After these verbs you can use to ... (infinitive):
- It was late, so we **decided to take** a taxi home.
- Simon was in a difficult situation, so I **agreed to help** him.
- How old were you when you **learnt to drive**? (or learnt **how** to drive)
- I waved to Karen, but **failed to attract** her attention.

The negative is **not to...**:
- We **decided not to go** out because of the weather.
- I **promised not to be** late.

After some verbs **to...** is not possible. For ex, **enjoy/think/suggest**:
- I **enjoy reading**. (not enjoy to read)
- Andy **suggested meeting** for coffee. (not suggested to meet)
- Are you **thinking of buying** a car? (not thinking to buy)

For verb + **-ing**, see Unit 53. For verb + preposition + **-ing**, see Unit 62.

### Part B dare
After **dare** you can use the infinitive with or without **to**:
- I wouldn't **dare to tell** him. or I wouldn't **dare tell** him.

But after **dare not** (or **daren't**), you must use the infinitive without **to**:
- I **daren't tell** him what happened. (not I daren't to tell him)

### Part C we also use to ... after:
> seen appear tend pretend claim

For ex:
- They **seem to have** plenty of money.
- I like Dan, but I think he **tends to talk** too much.
- Ann **pretended not to see** me when she passed me in the street.

There is also a continuous infinitive (**to be doing**) and a perfect infinitive (**to have** done):
- I **pretended to be reading** the paper. (= I pretended that I **was reading**)
- You **seem to have lost** weight. (= it seems that you **have lost** weight)
- Joe **seems to be enjoying** his new job. (= it seems that he **is enjoying** it)

### Part D what / whether / how to...
After some verbs you can use a question word (**what / whether / how** etc.) + to...
We use this structure especially after:
> ask decide know remember forget explain learn understand wonder

- We **asked how to get** to the station.
- Have you **decided where to go** for your holidays?
- I don't **know whether to apply** for the job or not.
- Do you **understand what to do?**

**show/tell/ask/advise/teach** somebody **what/how/where** to do something:
- Can somebody **show me how to use** this camera?
- Ask Jack. He'll **tell you what to do**.

## Unit 55 Verb (+ object) + to ... (I want you to ... etc.)
### Part A followed by to...(infinitive)
> want ask help \[would like\]
> expect beg mean(= intend) \[would prefer\]

These verbs are followed by **to...** (infinitive). The structure can be:
| verb + to...                      | verb + object + to...                |
| --------------------------------- | ------------------------------------ |
| We **expected to be** late.       | We expected **Dan to be** late.      |
| **Would** you **like to go** now? | Would you like **me to go** now?     |
| He doesn't **want to know.**      | He doesn't want **anybody to know**. |

Do not say 'want that':
- Do you **want me to come** with you? (not Do you want that I come)

After **help** you can use the infinitive with or without **to**. So you can say:
- Can you help me **to move this table**? or Can you help me **move** this table?

### Part B verb object + to...
> tell remind force encourage teach enable
> order warn invite persuade get(=persuade)

These verbs have the structure verb + objct + **to...**:
- Can you **remind me to call** Sam tomorrow?
- Who **taught you to drive**?
- I didn't move the piano by myself. I **got somebody to help** me.
- Joe said switch was dangerous and **warned me not to touch** it.

In the next example, the verb is passive (**I was warned / we were told** etc.):
- **I was warned not to touch** the switch.

You cannot use **suggest** with the structure verb + object + **to...**:
- Jane **suggested that I ask** your advice. (not Jane suggested me to ask)

### Part C advise and allow
After **advise** and **allow**, two structures are possible. Compare
| verb + **-ing** (without an object)                    | verb + object + **to...**                                     |
| ------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------- |
| I wouldn't **advise staying** in that hotel.           | I wouldn't **advise anybody to stay** in that hotel.          |
| They don't **allow parking** in front of the building. | They don't **allow people to park** in front of the building. |

Study these ex with **(be) allowed** (passive):
- Parking **isn't allowed** in front of the building.
- You **aren't allowed to park** in front of the building.

### Part D Make and let
These verbs have the sturcture verb + object + infinitive (without **to**):
- I **made him promise** that he wouldn't tell anybody what happened. (not to promise)
- Hot weather **makes me feel** tired. (= causes me to feel tired)
- Her parents wouldn't **let her go** out alone. (= wouldn't allow her to go out)
- **Let me carry** your bag for you.

We say '**make** somebody **do**' (not to do), but in the passie we say '**made to** do' (with **to**):
- **We were made to wait** for two hours. (= They **made us wait**...)

## Unit 56 Verb + -ing or to... 1 (remember/regret etc.)
### Part A Some verbs are followed by -ing and some are followed by to ...
#### Verbs usually followed by -ing
> admit fancy postpone
> avoid finish risk
> consider imagine stop
> deny keep(on) suggest
> enjoy mind
> for example, see Unit 53

#### Verbs usually followed by to...:
> afford fail offer
> agree forget plan
> arrange hope promise
> decide learn refuse
> deserve manage threaten
> For ex, see Unit 54

### Part B remember, regret, go on
Some verbs can be followed by **-ing** or **to** ... with a difference of meaning:
- remember
    - I **remember doing** something = I did it and now I remember this.
        - You **remember doing** something after you have done it.
            - I know I locked the door. I clearly **remember locking** it. (= I locked it, and now I remember this)
            - He could **remember driving** along the road just before the accident, but he couldn't remember the accident itself.
    - I remembered to do something = I remembered that I had to do it, so I did it.
        - You **remember to do** something before you do it.
            - I **remembered to lock** the door, but I forgot to shut the windows. (= I remembered that I had to lock it, and so I locked it)
            - I must **remember to pay** the electricity bill. (= I must not forget to pay it)


- regret
    - I **regret doing** something = I did it and now I'm sorry about it:
        - I now **regret saying** what I said. I shouldn't have said it.
        - Do you **regret not going** to college?
    - I **regret to say / to tell** you / **to inform** you = I'm sorry that I have to say (etc.):
        - (from a formal letter) We **regret to inform** you that your application has been unsuccessful.

- go on
    - **Go on doing** something = continue with the same thing:
        - The president paused for a moment and then **went on talking**.
        - We need to change. We can't **go on living** like this.
    - **Go on to do** something = do or say something new:
        - After discussing the economy, the president then **went on to talk** about foreign policy.

### Part C -ing or to...
The following verbs can be followed by **-ing** or **to...** with no difference of meaning:
> begin start continue intend bother

So you can say:
- It **started raining**. or It **started to rain**.
- Andy **intends buying** a house. or Andy **intends to buy ...**
- Don't **bother locking** the door. or Don't **bother to lock...**.

But normally we do not use **-ing** after **-ing**:
- It's starting to rain.

## Unit 57 Verb + -ing or to ... 2 (try/need/help)
### Part A Try to ... and try -ing
**Try to do** = attempt to do, make no effort to do:
- I was very tired. I **tried to keep** my eyes open, but I couldn't
- Please **try to be** quiet when you come home. Everyone will be asleep.

**Try** also means 'do something as an experimemt or test'. For example:
- These cakes are delicious. You should **try** one. (= you should have one to see if you like it)
- We couldn't find any where to stay. We **tried** every hotel in the town, but they were all full. (= we went to every hotel to see if they had a room)

if **try** (with this meaning) is followed by a verb, we say **try -ing**:
- The photocopier doesn't seem to be working. **Try pressing** the green button. (= press the green button - perhaps this will help to solve the problem)

Compare:
- I **tried to move** the table, but it was too heavy. (so I couldn't move it)
- I didn't like the way the furniture was arranged, so I **tried moving** the table to the other side of the room. But it didn't look right, so I moved it back again.

### Part B Need to... and need -ing
**I need to do** something = it is necessary for me to do it:
- I **need to get** more exercise.
- He **needs to work** harder if he wants to make progress.
- I don't **need to come** to the meeting, do I?

Something **needs doing** = it needs to be done.
- My phone **needs charging**. (= it needs to be charged)
- Do you think this jacket **needs cleaning**? (= ... needs to be cleaned)
- It's a difficult problem. It **needs thinking** about very carefully. (= it needs to be thought about)

### Part C Help and can't help
You can say **help to do** or **help do** (with or without **to**):
- Everybody **helped to clean** up after the party. or Everybody **helped clean** up...
- Can you **help** me **to move** this table? or Can you **help** me **move**...

I **can't help doing** something = I can't stop myself doing it:
- I don't like him, but he has a lot of problems. I **can't help feeling** sorry for him.
- She tried to be serious, but she **couldn't help laughing** (= she couldn't stop herself laughing).
- I'm sorry I'm so nervous. I **can't help it**. (= I can't help **being** nervous)

## Unit 58 Verb + -ing or to... 3 (like / would like etc.)
### Like / love / hate
When you talk about repeated actions, you can use **-ing** or **to...** after these verbs.
So you can say:
- Do you **like getting** up early? or Do you **like to get** up early?
- tephanie **hates flying**. or Stephanie **hates to fly**.
- I **love meeting** people. or I **love to meet** people.
- I don't **like being** kept waiting. or ...**like to be** kept waiting.
- I don't **like** friends **calling** me at work. or ...friends **to call** me at work.

We use **-ing**(not **to**...) when we talk about a situation that already exists (or existed).
- Paul lives in Berlin now. He **likes living** there. (He **likes living** in Berlin = He lives there and he likes it)
- Do you **like being** a student? (You are a student - do you like it?)
- The office I worked in was horrible. I **hated working** there. (I worked there and I hated it)

There is sometimes a difference between **I like to do** and **I like doing**:
**I like doing** something = I do it and I enjoy it:
- **I like cleaning** the kitchen. (= I enjoy it)

I **like to do** something = I think it is a good thing to do, but I don't necessaryily enjoy it:
- It's not my favourite job, but I **like to clean** the kitchen. (not I don't mind to clean)

Note that **enjoy** and **mind** are always followed by **-ing** (not **to...**):
- I **enjoy cleaning** the kitchen. (not I enjoy to clean)
- I **don't mind cleaning** the kitchen. (not I don't mind to clean)

### Part B Would like/ would love/ would hate / would prefer
**Would like / would love** etc. are usually followed by **to...**:
- I'**d like** (= I **would** like) to go away for a few days.
- **Would** you **like to come** to dinner on Friday?
- I **wouldn't like to go** on holiday alone.
- I'**d love to meet** your family.
- **Would** you **prefer to have** dinner now or later?

Compare **I like** and **I would like** (**I'd** like):
- I **like playing** tennis. / I **like to play** tennis. (= I like it in general)
- I'**d like to play** tennis today. (= I want to play today)

**Would mind** is always followed by **-ing** (not **to...**):
- **Would** you **mind closing** the door, please?

### Part C would have
I would like **to have done** something = I regret now that I didn't or couldn't do it:
- It's a shame we didn't see Anna when we were in London. I **would like to have seen** her again.
- We'**d like to have gone** away, but we were too busy at home.

You can use the same structure after **would love / would hate / would prefer**:
- Poor David! I **would hate to have been** in his position.
- I'**d love to have gone** to the party, but it was impossible.

## Unit 58 Verb + -ing or to ... 3 (like / would like etc.)
### Part A Like / love / hate
When you talk about repeated actions, you can use **-ing** or **to...** after these verbs.
So you can say:
- Do you **like getting** up early? or Do you **like to get** up early?
- Stephanie **hates flying**. or Stephanie **hates to fly**.
- I **love meeting** people. or I **love to meet** people.
- I don't **like being** kept waiting. or ...**like to be** kept waiting.
- I don't **like** friends **calling** me at work. or ...friends **to call** me at work.

We use **-ing** (not **to...**) when we talk about a situation that already exists (or existed).
- Paul lives in Berlin now. He **likes living** there. (He **likes living** in Berlin = He lives there and he likes it)
- Do you **like being** a student? (You are a student - do you like it?)
- The office I worked in was horrible. I **hated working** there. (I worked there and I hated it)

There is sometimes a difference between **I like to do** and **I like doing**:

**I like doing** something = I do it and I enjoy it:
- I **like cleaning** the kitchen. (= I enjoy it)

I **like to do** something = I think it is a good thing to do, but I don't necessarily enjoy it:
- It's not my favourite job, but I **like to clean** the kitchen as often as possible.

Note that **enjoy** and **mind** are always followed by **-ing** (not **to..**)
- I **enjoy cleaning** the kitchen. (not I enjoy to clean)
- I **don't mind cleaning** the kitchen. (not I don't mind to clean)

### Part B Would like / would love / would hate / would prefer
**Would like / would love** etc. are usually followed by **to...**:
- I'**d like** (I **would** like) to go away for a few days.
- **Would** you **like to come** to dinner on Friday?
- I **wouldn't like to go** on holiday alone.
- I'**love to meet** your family.
- **Would** you **prefer to have** dinner now or later?

Compare **I like** and **I would like** (**I'd** like):
- I **like playing** tennis. / I **like to play** tennis. (= I like it in general)
- I'**d like to play** tennis today. (= I want to play today)

**Would mind** is always followed by **-ing** (not **to..**):
- **Would** you **mind closing** the door, please?

### Part C to have done 
I would like **to have done** something = regret now that I didn't or couldn't do it:
- It's a shame we didn't see Anna when we were in London. I **would like to have seen** her again.
- We'**d like to have gone** away, but we were too busy at home.

You can use the same structure after **would love / would hate / would prefer**:
- Poor David! I **would hate to have been** in his position.
- I'**d love to have gone** to the party, but it was impossible.

## Unit 59 Prefer and would rather
### Part A Prefer to do and prefer doing
You can use **prefer to do** or **prefer -ing** to say what you prefer in general:
- I don't like cities. I **prefer to live** in the country. or I **prefer living** in the country.

Study the differences in structure after **prefer**. We say:
- I prefer something to something else.
- I prefer **doing** something **to doing** something else.
- I prefer **to do** something **rather than (do)** something else.

but:
- I **prefer** this coat to the coat you were wearing yesterday.
- I **prefer driving to travelling** by train.
- I **prefer to drive rather than travel** by train.
- Sarah **prefers to live** in the country **rather than (live)** in a city.

### Part B Would prefer (I'd prefer...)
We use **would prefer** to say what somebody wants in a specific situation (not in general):
- **Would** you **prefer** tea or coffee? Coffee, please.

We say 'would prefer **to do** something' (not usually would prefer doing):
- Shall we go by train? I'**d prefer to drive**. (not I'd prefer driving)
- I'**d prefer to stay** at home tonight **rather than go** to the cinema.


### Part C would rather (I'd rather ...)
**Would rather** (do) = **would prefer** (to do). We use **would rather** + infinitive (without **to**).
Compare:
- Shall we go by train? 
    - I'd **prefer to drive**.
    - I'd **rather drive**.
- **Would** you **rather have** tea or coffee? Coffee, please.

The negative is I**d rather not** (do something):
- I'm tired. I'**d rather not go** out this evening, if you don't mind.
- Do you want to go out this evening? I'**d rather not**.

We say **would rather do** something **than do** something else:
- I'**d rather stay** at home tonight **than go** to the cinema.

### Part D I'd rather somebody did something
We say **I'd rather** you **did** something (not I'd rather you do). For ex:
- Who's going to drive, you or me? I'**d rather** you **drove**. (= I would prefer this)
- Jack says he'll repair your bike tomorrow, OK? I'**d rather** he **did** it today.
- Are you going to tell Anna what happened, or **would** you **rather** I **told** her?

In this structure we use the past (**drove, did** etc.), but the meaning is present not past.
Compare:
- I'd rather **make** dinner now.
- I'd rather **you made** dinner now. (not I'd rather you make)

I'd rather you **didn't** (do something) = I'd prefer you not to do it:
- I'**d rather you didn't tell** anyone what I said.
- Are you going to tell Anna what happened? No. I'**d rather** she **didn't** know.
- Shall I tell Anna what happened? I'**d rather you didn't**.

## Unit 60 Preposition (in/ for/ about etc.) + -ing
### Part A If a preposition (in/for/about etc.) is followed by a ver, the verb ends in -ing:
- Are you interested **in working** for us?
- I'm not good **at learning** languages.
- Sue must be fed up **with studying**.
- What are the advantages **of having** a car?
- Thanks very much **for inviting** me to your party.
- How **about meeting** for lunch tomorrow?
- Why don't you go out **instead of sitting** at home all the time?
- Amy went to work **in spite of feeling** ill.

### Part B Note the use of following prepositions + -ing
**before -ing** and **after -ing**:
- **Before going** out, I phoned Sarah.
- What did you do **after finishing** school?
You can also say **Before I went** out... and **...after you finished** school.

**by -ing**(to say how something happens):
- The burglars got into the house **by breaking** a window and **climbing** in.
- You can improve your English **by reading** more.
- She made herself ill **by** not **eating** properly
- Many accidents are caused **by** people **driving** too fast.

**without -ing**:
- We ran ten kilometres **without stopping**.
- It was a stupid thing to say. I said it **without thinking**.
- She needs to work **without** people **disturbing** her. (or ... **without being** disturbed.)
- I have enough problems of my own **without having** to worry about yours.

### Part C To -ing (look forward to doing something etc.)
**To** is often part of the infinitive (**to** do / **to** see etc.):
- We decided to **travel** by train.
- Would you like **to meet** for lunch tomorrow?

But **to** is also a preposition (like **in/for/about/with** etc.). For ex:
- We went from Paris **to Geneva**.
- I prefer tea **to coffee**.
- Are you looking forward **to the weekend**?

if a preposition is followed by a verb, the verb ends in **-ing**:
- I'm fed up **with travelling** by train.
- How **about going** away this weekend?

So, when **to** is a preposition and it is followed by a verb, you must say **to -ing**:
- I prefer driving **to travelling** by train. (not to travel)
- Are you looking forward **to going** on holiday? (not looking forward to go)

## Unit 61 Be/get used to something (I'm used to...)
### Part A situation
Driving on the left was strange and difficult for her because:

She **wasn't used to it**.
She **wasn't used to driving** on the left.

But after a lot of practice, driving on the left became less strange. So:
She **got used to driving** on the left.

Now it's no problem for Lisa:
She **is used to driving** on the left.

### Part B I'm used to something
I'**m used to** something = it is not new or strange for me:
- Paul lives alone. He doesn't mind this because he has lived alone for 15 years. It is not strange for him. He **is used to it**. He **is used to living** alone.
- I bought some new shoes. They felt a bit strange at first because I **wasn't used to them**.
- Our new apartment is on a very busy street. I expect we'll **get used to the noise**, but at the moment it's very disturbing.

### Part C After be/get used
After **be/get used** you cannot use the infinitive (**to do / to drive** etc.). We say:
- She is used **to driving** on the left. (not She is used to drive)

When we say '**I am used to** something', **to** is a preposition, not a part of the infinitive. So we say:
- We're not used **to the noise**. We're not used **to it**.
- Paul is used **to living** alone. (not Paul is used to live)
- Lisa had to get used **to driving** on the left. (not get used to drive)

### Part D Do not confuse I am used to doing and I used to do
I **am** used **to (doing)** something = it isn't strange or new for me:
- I **am** used **to the weather** in this country.
- I **am** used **to driving** on the left because I've lived in Britain a long time.

I used **to do** something = I did it regularly in the past but no longer do it. You can use this only for the past, not for the present (See unit 18)
The structure is I **used** to do (not I **am** used to do):
- I **used to drive** to work every day, but these days I usually go by bike.
- We **used to live** just outside the town, but now we live near the centre.

## Unit 62 Verb + preposition + -ing (succeed in -ing / accuse somebody of -ing etc.)
### Part A verb + preposition (in/for/about etc.) + object
| verb                   | preposition | object        |
| ---------------------- | ----------- | ------------- |
| We **talked**          | **about**   | the problem   |
| You must **apologise** | **for**     | what you said |

if the object is another verb, it ends in **-ing**
| verb                   | preposition | object                      |
| ---------------------- | ----------- | --------------------------- |
| We **talked**          | **about**   | **going** to South America. |
| You must **apologise** | **for**     | not **telling** the truth.  |

Some more verbs with this structure:
- approve (of)
    - He doesn't **approve of swearing**.
- decide (against)
    - We have **decided against moving**  to London.
- dream (of)
    - I wouldn't **dream of asking** them for money.
- feel (like)
    - Do you **feel like going** out tonight?
- insist (on)
    - They **insisted on paying** for the meal.
- look forward (to)
    - I'm **looking forward to meeting** her.
- succeed (in)
    - Have you **succeeded in finding** a job yet?
- think (of/about)
    - I'm **thinking of/about buying** a house.

You can also say 'approve of **somebody** doing something', 'look forward to **somebody** doing something' etc:
- I don't approve **of people killing** animals for fun.
- We are all looking forward **to Andy coming** home.

### Part B verb + object + preposition + **-ing**
- accuse (of)
    - They **accused** us **of telling** lies.
- congratulate (on)
    - We all **congratulated** Lisa **on winning** the first prize.
- excuse (for)
    - **Excuse** me **for phoning** you so late.
- prevent (from)
    - What **prevented** you **from coming** to see us?
- stop (from)
    - The rain didn't **stop** us **from enjoying** our holiday.
- suspect (of)
    - Nobody **suspected** the general **of being** a spy.
- thank (for)
    - I forgot to **thank** them **for helping** me.

You can say '**stop** somebody **doing**' or '**stop** somebody **from doing**'
- You can't **stop** me **doing** what I want. or You can't 
- d**stop** me **from doing** what I want.

The following examples are with **no -ing**:
- They accused us of **not telling** the truth.
- Excuse me for **not replying** to your email until now.

Some of these verbs are often used in the passive. For example:
- We **were accused of telling** lies.
- The general **was suspected of being** a spy.

Note that we say 'apologise **to somebody** for...':
- I apologised **to them** for keeping them waiting. (not I apologised them)

## Unit 63 Expressions + -ing
### Part A expressions are followed by a verb, the verb ends in **-ing**
- It's not use / It's no good.
    - There's nothing you can do about the situation, so **it's no use worrying** about it.
    - **It's no good trying** to persuade me. You won't succeed.
- There's no point in ...
    - **There's no point in having**
- But we usually say '**the** point **of doing** something':
    - **What's the point of having** a car if you never use it.

### Part B It's (not) worth...
- It's (not) worth...
    - I live only a short walk from here, so **it's not worth taking** a taxi.
    - Our flight was very early in the morning, so **it wasn't worth going** to bed.

You can say that a film is **worth seeing**, a book is **worth reading** etc:
- What was the film like? Was it **worth seeing**?
- Thieves broke into the house, but didn't take anything. There was nothing **worth stealing**.

### Part C Have trouble -ing, have difficulty -ing etc.
- Have trouble / difficulty / a problem doing something
    - I had no **trouble finding** a place to stay. (not trouble to find)
    - Did you have any **difficuly getting** a visa? 
    - People sometimes have **problem reading** my writing.

### Part D Spend time / waste time / be busy
- spend/waste (time) doing something:
    - He **spent** hours **trying** to repair the clock.
    - I **waste** a lot of time **doing** nothing.
- (be) **busy doing** something:
    - She said she couldn't see me. She was too **busy doing** other things.

### Part E Go swimming / go fishing etc.
We use **go -ing** for a number of activities (especially sport).
For ex, you can say:
> go sailing, go camping, go riding
> go swimming, go surfing, go hiking
> go fishing, go scuba diving, go sightseeing
> go skiing, go jogging, go shopping

- How often do you **go swimming**?
- I'd like to **go skiing**.
- When was the last time you **went shopping**?
- I've never **been sailing**. (For **gone** and **been**, see Unit 7C)

## Unit 64 To..., for ... and so that...
### Part A example
- I phoned the restaurant **to reserve** a table.
- What do you need **to make** bread?
- We shouted **to warn** everybody of the danger.
- This letter is **to confirm** the decisions we made at our meeting last week.
- The president has a team of bodyguards **to protect** him.

In these examples **to ... (to reserve.../ to make ...** etc.) tells us the purpose of something: why somebody does something, has something, needs something etc., or why something exists.

### Part B to...
We say a place **to park**, something **to eat**, work **to do** etc:
- It's difficult to find **a place to park** in the centre. (= a place where you can park)
- Would you like **something to eat**? (= something that you can eat)
- Do you have **much work to do**? (= work that you must do)
- I get lonely if there's **nobody to talk to**.
- I need **something to open** this bottle **with**.

Also **money/time/chance/opportunity/energy/courage(etc.) to** do something:
- They gave us **money to buy** food.
- Do you have **much opportunity to practise** you English?
- I need **a few days to think** about your proposal.

### Part C Compare for... and to...
| for + noun                    | to + verb                          |
| ----------------------------- | ---------------------------------- |
| We stopped **for petrol**.    | We stopped **to get** petrol.      |
| I had to run **for the bus.** | I had to run **to catch the bus**. |

You can say '**for** somebody **to do** something':
- There weren't any chairs **for us to sit on**,so we sat on the floor.

You can use **for -ing** or **to...** talk about the general purpose of something, or what it is generaly used for:
- I use this brush **for washing** the dishes. or **...to wash** the dishes.

But we do not use **for -ing** to say why somebody does something:
- I went into the kitchen **to wash** the dishes. (not for washing)

You can use **What ... for**? to ask about purpose:
- **What** is this switch **for**?
- **What** did you do that **for**?

### Part D So that
We use **so that** (not **to...**) especially

when the purpose is negative (**so that ... won't/wouldn't**):
- I hurried **so that** I **wouldn't** be late. (= because I didn't want to be late)
- Eat something now **so that** you **won't (or **don't**) **get** hungry later.

with **can** and **could** (so **that... can/could**):
- She's learning English **so that** she **can** study in Canada.
- We moved to London **so that** we **could** see our friends more often.

You can leave out **that**. So you can say:
- I hurried **so that** I wouldn't be late. or I hurried **so** I wouldn't be late.

## Unit 65 Adjective + to
### Part A Difficult to understand etc.
Compare sentences (a) and (b)
- James doesn't speak very clearly.
    - (a) **It** is difficult to understand **him**.
    - (b) **He** is **difficult to understand**.
Sentences (a) and (b) have the same meaning. Note that we say:
- He is difficult **to understand** (not He is difficult to understand him)


You can use the same structures with
> easy nice safe cheap exciting impossible
> hard good dangerous expensive interesting

- safe to..
    - Do you think it is **safe** (for us) **to drink this water**?
    - Do you think this water is **safe** (for us) **to drink**? (not to drink it)
-  impossible to...
    -  The questions in the exam were very difficult. It was **impossible to answer them**.
    -  The questions in the exam were very difficult. They were **impossible to answer**. (not to answer them)
- interesting to
    - Nicola has lots of interesting ideas. It's **interesting to talk** to her.
    - Nicola is **interesting to talk to**. (not ot talk to her.)

### Part B Nice of (you) to ...
You can say 'it's **nice of** somebody **to** do something':
- It was **nice of you to take** me to the airport. Thank you very much.

You can use many other adjectives in this way. For ex:
> kind (in)considerate generous mean careless silly stupid unfair
- It's **silly of Ruth to give up** her job when she needs the money.
- I think it was **unfair of him to criticise** me.

### Part C Sorry to... / surprised to ... etc.
You can use adj + **to...** to say how somebody reacts to something:
- I'm **sorry to hear** that your mother isn't well.

You can use many other adj in this way. For ex:
> glad pleased relieved surprised amazed sad disappointed
- Was Julia **surprised to see** you?
- It was a long and tiring journey. We were **glad to get** home.

### Part D The first / the next (etc.) + to...
You can use **to...** after **the first/second/thrid** etc., and also after **the last / the next / the only...**:
- If I have any more news, you will be **the first** (person) **to know**.
- **The next** train **to arrive** at platform 4 will be the 10.50 to Liverpool.
- Everybody was late except me. I was **the only** one **to arrive** on time.

### Part E sure certain/likely/bound to happen:
You can say that something is **sure/certain/likely/bound to** happen:
- Carla is a very good student. She's **bound to pass** the exam. (= she is sure to pass)
- I'm **likely to get** home late tonight. (= I will probably get home late)

## Unit 66 To... (afraid to do) and preposition + -ing (afraid of -ing)
### Part A Afraid to (do) and afraid of (do)ing
I am **afraid to do** something = I don't want to do it because it is dangerous or the result  could be bad.
We use **afraid to do** for things we do intentionally; we can choose to do them or not:
- This part of town is dangerous. People are **afraid to walk** here at night. (= they don't want to walk here because it is dangerous - so they don't)
- James was **afraid to tell** his parents what had happened. (= he didn't want to tell them because he knew they would b angry or worried)

I am **afraid of** something **happening** = it is possible that something bad will happen (for ex, an accident)
We do not use **afraid of -ing** for things we do intentionally:
- The path was icy, so we walked very carefully. We were **afraid of falling**.(= it was possible that we would fall - not we were afraid to fall)
- I don't like dogs. I'm always **afraid of being** bitten. (not afraid to be bitten)

So, you are **afraid to do** something because you are **afraid of something happening** as a result:
- I was **afraid to go** near the dog bacause I **was afraid of being** bitten.

### Part B interested in (do)ing and interested to (do)
I'm **interested in doing** something = I'm thinking of doing it, I would like to do it:
- Let me know if you're **interested in joining** the club. (not to join)
- I tried to sell my car, but nobody was **interested in buying** it. (not to buy)

We use **interested to...** to say how somebody reacts to what they **hear/see/read/learn/know/find**.
For ex, 'I was **interested to hear** it' = I heard it and it was interesting for me:
- I was **interested to hear** that Tanya left her job.
- Ask Mike for opinion. I would be **interested to know** what he thinks. (= it would be interesting for me to know it)

This structure is the same as **surprised to .../ glad to...** etc. (see Unit 65C)
- I was **surprised to hear** that Tanya left her job.

### Part C Sorry to (do) and sorry for/about (do)ing
We use **sorry to...** to say we regret something that happens (see Unit 65C):
- I was **sorry to hear** that Nicky lost her job. (= I was sorry when i heard that...)
- I've enjoyed my stay here. I'll be **sorry to leave**.

We also say **sorry to...** to apologise at the time we do something:
- I'm **sorry to phone** you so late, but I need to ask you something.

You can use **sorry for** or **sorry about (doing something)** to apologise for something you did before
- I'm **sorry for** (or **about**) **shouting** at you yesterday. (not sorry to shout)

You can also say:
- I'm **sorry I shouted** at you yesterday.

### Part D We say:
I want to (do) / I'd like to (do) but I'm **thinking of (do)ing** / I **dream of (do)ing**

I **failed to** (do) but I **succeeded in (do)ing**

I **allowed** them to (do) but I **prevented** them **from (do)ing** , I **stopped** them **from (do)ing**

For ex, see Units 54-55 and 62.

