# HTTP Semantics

> Last updated 2022/10/09
> Stream:Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
> RFC:9110
> Obsoletes:2818, 7230, 7231, 7232, 7233, 7235, 7538, 7615, 7694
> Updates:3864
> Category:Standards Track
> Published:June 2022

## [Source](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110)

## Abstract

The Hypertext Transfer Protocol `(HTTP)` is a `stateless application-level protocol` for **distributed**, **collaborative**, **hypertext information** systems. This `document` describes the `overall architecture of HTTP, establishes common terminology`, and defines aspects of the protocol that are shared by all versions. In this definition are core protocol elements, extensibility mechanisms, and the "http" and "https" Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) schemes.

This document updates RFC 3864 and obsoletes RFCs 2818, 7231, 7232, 7233, 7235, 7538, 7615, 7694, and portions of 7230.

## 1. Introduction

### 1.1. Purpose

The Hypertext Transfer Protocol `(HTTP)` is a `family of stateless, application-level`, `request/response protocols` that `share a generic interface`, `extensible semantics`, and `self-descriptive messages` to enable flexible `interaction with network-based hypertext` information systems.

`HTTP` hides the details of how a service is implemented by `presenting a uniform interface to clients` that is independent of the types of resources provided.

Likewise, `servers do not need to be aware of each client's purpose`: a request can be considered in isolation rather than being associated with a specific type of client or a predetermined sequence of application steps. This allows general-purpose implementations to be used effectively in many different contexts, reduces interaction complexity, and enables independent evolution over time.

`HTTP` is also designed for use as an `intermediation protocol`, wherein `proxies and gateways can translate non-HTTP information` systems into a more `generic interface`.

`One consequence` of this flexibility is that the protocol `cannot be defined in terms of what occurs behind the interface`. `Instead`, we are `limited` to defining the **syntax of communication**, the **intent of received communication**, and the **expected behavior of recipients**. If the communication is considered in isolation, then successful actions ought to be reflected in corresponding changes to the observable interface provided by servers.

However, since multiple clients might act in parallel and perhaps at cross-purposes, we `cannot require` that `such changes` be observable `beyond the scope of a single response`.
